Pandas Dependencies
    setuptools
    NumPy: 1.9.0 or higher
    python-dateutil: 1.5 or higher
    pytz: Needed for time zone support

Highly Recommended Dependencies
    numexpr: for accelerating certain numerical operations. numexpr uses multiple cores as well as smart chunking and caching to achieve large speedups. If installed, must be Version 2.4.6 or higher.
    bottleneck: for accelerating certain types of nan evaluations. bottleneck uses specialized cython routines to achieve large speedups. If installed, must be Version 1.0.0 or higher.

Optional Dependencies
    Cython: Only necessary to build development version. Version 0.23 or higher.
    SciPy: miscellaneous statistical functions, Version 0.14.0 or higher
    xarray: pandas like handling for > 2 dims, needed for converting Panels to xarray objects. Version 0.7.0 or higher is recommended.
    PyTables: necessary for HDF5-based storage. Version 3.0.0 or higher required, Version 3.2.1 or higher highly recommended.
    Feather Format: necessary for feather-based storage, version 0.3.1 or higher.
    Apache Parquet, either pyarrow (>= 0.4.1) or fastparquet (>= 0.0.6) for parquet-based storage. The snappy and brotli are available for compression support.
    SQLAlchemy: for SQL database support. Version 0.8.1 or higher recommended. Besides SQLAlchemy, you also need a database specific driver. You can find an overview of supported drivers for each SQL dialect in the SQLAlchemy docs. Some common drivers are:
        psycopg2: for PostgreSQL
        pymysql: for MySQL.
        SQLite: for SQLite, this is included in Python’s standard library by default.
    matplotlib: for plotting, Version 1.4.3 or higher.
    For Excel I/O:
        xlrd/xlwt: Excel reading (xlrd) and writing (xlwt)
        openpyxl: openpyxl version 1.6.1 or higher (but lower than 2.0.0), or version 2.2 or higher, for writing .xlsx files (xlrd >= 0.9.0)
        XlsxWriter: Alternative Excel writer
    Jinja2: Template engine for conditional HTML formatting.
    s3fs: necessary for Amazon S3 access (s3fs >= 0.0.7).
    blosc: for msgpack compression using blosc
    One of PyQt4, PySide, pygtk, xsel, or xclip: necessary to use read_clipboard(). Most package managers on Linux distributions will have xclip and/or xsel immediately available for installation.
    pandas-gbq: for Google BigQuery I/O.
    Backports.lzma: Only for Python 2, for writing to and/or reading from an xz compressed DataFrame in CSV; Python 3 support is built into the standard library.
    One of the following combinations of libraries is needed to use the top-level read_html() function:
        BeautifulSoup4 and html5lib and(Any recent version of html5lib is okay.)
        BeautifulSoup4 and lxml
        BeautifulSoup4 and html5lib and lxml
        Only lxml, although see HTML Table Parsing for reasons as to why you should probably not take this approach.

    Warning
        if you install BeautifulSoup4 you must install either lxml or html5lib or both. read_html() will not work with only BeautifulSoup4 installed.
        You are highly encouraged to read HTML Table Parsing gotchas. It explains issues surrounding the installation and usage of the above three libraries.
        You may need to install an older version of BeautifulSoup4: Versions 4.2.1, 4.1.3 and 4.0.2 have been confirmed for 64 and 32-bit Ubuntu/Debian

    Note
        if you’re on a system with apt-get you can do
        sudo apt-get build-dep python-lxml
        to get the necessary dependencies for installation of lxml. This will prevent further headaches down the line.

Note
Without the optional dependencies, many useful features will not work. Hence, it is highly recommended that you install these. A packaged distribution like Anaconda, or Enthought Canopy may be worth considering.
